1. What is HTML? What is CSS? What is Javascript?
HTML - Hypertext Markup Language - defines the structure of the page
CSS - Cascading Style Sheets - defines the styles for the page
Javascript - a programming language that specifies the behavior of web pages

2. What are the major parts of an HTTP request?
HTTP verb/method
URL
parameters

3. What are the major parts of an HTTP response?
status code 
payload

4. How do you submit an HTTP POST request, with a "username" attribute set to "bob"? What if we wanted a GET request instead?
using a form with a username input field that has 'bob' entered and the 'name' value set to 'username', and method set to POST.  For a GET request you can use a link or enter a url in the address bar with the "bob" "username" parameters as part of the url.

5. Why is it important for us, as web developers, to understand that HTTP is a "stateless" protocol?
Because we need to fake persistance.

6. If the internet is just HTTP requests/responses, why do we only use browsers to interface with web applications? Are there any other options?
Maybe because everybody has access to browsers and browsers are made to submit requests and return responses, but some other application could be used. 

7. What is MVC, and why is it important?
Model View Controller is a common programming pattern that works well with web development.  When a request comes into the application the controller/action handles it.  Based on the request components the controller will go to the model layer and then render or redirect.

Sinatra

1. At a high level, how are requests processed?
By the controller/action

2. In the controller/action, what's the difference between rendering and redirecting?
You can render text directly or render a template or you can redirect which issues another request and you need another action setup to handle it.

3. In the ERB view template, how do you show dynamic content?
Using instance variables, sessions, and helper variables to build logic in your templates.

4. Given what you know about ERB templates, when do you suppose the ERB template is turned into HTML?
When it is rendered?

5. What's the role of instance variables in Sinatra?
We set up instance variables in the action and then they are available when a template is rendered.  This tricks the user into thinking that there is state.